today I shall be meeting with
interference ingratitude insolence
disloyalty ill-will and selfishness all
of them due to the offenders ignorant of
what is good or evil we all know someone
in our lives that's so exhausting to be
around there's always some form of drama
going on and if we happen to be in a
good mood ourselves the person in
question manages to turn the tide within
a few minutes this walking vortex of
negativity seems highly contagious and
Rob's us of Raja de vivre
in a previous video I've talked about
how to stop caring what people think now
let's go a bit further by exploring four
ways to deal with so-called toxic people
first of all thank you once a month for
your patreon pledge and thank you
savvier for your generous PayPal
donation I appreciate it very much and
it helps me to continue this project now
let's dive in don't we just love
labeling each other I love it too Sigma
mail do MERS Zoomers my channel is full
of labels now in the world of psychology
and self-help we've got these highly
popular terms like autism narcissist
borderline these refer to serious
conditions that's for sure but we also
see that quite a few people use these
terms very loosely to label others
especially those people they don't like
yet another popular label is toxic we
can speak about toxic parents toxic
relationships a toxic friend and perhaps
also a toxic Pat or a toxic pizza
delivery guy the word toxic indicates
that there's something wrong with a
certain person object or situation that
in some way poisons you it depletes your
mood it angers you it makes you sad
frightens you it basically affects you
negatively now I won't deny that people
can radiate negativity but I don't
really believe in toxic people because I
don't think anyone is inherently toxic
what I do believe is that most people
have their demons or shadow as Carl Jung
called it which is part of the human
condition however within some people the
demons are simply more dominant than
usual the negative inconsiderate and
often manipulative behavior of these
difficult individuals is what we
perceive as toxic for this video I
prefer the term and difficult people now
how can we deal with difficult people
let's start with the first method one
walking away now walking away from
someone may be the best option if you
realistically don't see any other way to
be unaffected by this person perhaps he
or she is extremely violent or extremely
manipulative
in other words downright dangerous it
takes great skill to deal with such a
demon ridden human being
chances are that you're not equipped for
that and that's okay not everyone is a
Zen master by walking away we
demonstrate our autonomy and that we're
not going to put up with this
destructive behavior any longer the
disadvantage of this method is that
we're still affected if we happen to
encounter this person here's a quote
from stoic philosopher Epictetus to show
you what I mean remember that following
desire promises the attainment of that
of which you are desirous and the
version promises the avoiding that to
which you are averse however he who
fails to obtain the object of his desire
is disappointed and he will encourage
the object of his aversion ratchet and
quote a version is a tricky thing in
this case it's great when you were away
from that person but it's terrible when
you're not nonetheless I think that
walking away can be an effective method
for dealing with difficult people that
affect us negatively out of sight out of
mind
right however walking away isn't always
an option sometimes we have to deal with
difficult people on a daily basis
because they are colleagues roommates or
family members luckily there are other
options too indifference indifference is
truly a power it's a way to keep our
faculty unshaken by outside events
because it's not what happens outside us
that hurts us but the way we position
ourselves towards it being indifferent
towards something you averse or even
hate is easier said than done
so it's an intermediate method I've
noticed that most trouble with people in
my life takes place in my mind I've had
discussions with people in the shower
I've been arguing with annoying
co-workers while sitting in the train to
work I fought with my uncle while having
dinner at home and all of these negative
experiences are products of my noisy
thoughts so when we meet these people in
real life it's like they've been
plaguing us all day but in reality it
was the mind that plagued us so it's
much easier to be indifferent towards
people and I mean truly indifference if
we don't think about them
detach even in their presence the way to
do this is by living in the present
moment by focusing on the present the
negative behavior of other people has a
minimal effect on us we don't think
about them during the day and when they
are around us the things they say go in
one ear and out the other we can even
give these encounters a positive twist
by seeing these people as our teachers
because they give us the opportunity to
practice the art of indifference free
seeing the temporary nature of things
there's a Sufi story about a king who
noticed that he is happy when things are
going well in the country and sad when
things aren't going well basically his
mood was tied to the comings and goings
of his environment when he was happy he
celebrated by throwing huge parties in
the palace but when he was sad he
retreated in his personal quarters being
depressed so he asked the wisest man of
the kingdom to create a ring for him
that will make him happy when he is sad
thus days later the wise man handed over
a ring to the king with the words this
too will pass act on it this worked
because in times of despair it reminded
him that the universe is ever-changing
not only he felt better in bad times he
also felt less overjoyed in good times
keeping his euphoria in check and saving
resources that were normally wasted on
festivities reminding ourselves of the
temporary nature of things gives relief
we might be bothered by someone right
now it won't last forever when we see
that everything is impermanent it's
easier to look at life as a series of
manifestations that come and go and
passes by like clouds in the sky we
won't be overjoyed when the person is
gone and we won't be irritated when a
person is around we're just dealing with
another appearance which like anything
eventually disappears knowing this
prevents us from feeling trapped in a
moment like we are forever burdened with
the negativity of another you
being which is just an illusion for
kindness and compassion now this is
expert level when we are able to react
non passionately when confronted with
negative or even hostile behavior we can
choose to fight back with kindness at
the root of genuine kindness there's
compassion and empathy because if we are
able to put ourselves in other people's
shoes and feel with them will realize
that they truly must suffer to radiate
such levels of negativity into the world
who is more affected by these people you
or the people that have to live with
themselves for 24 hours a day seven days
a week the knowledge of them suffering
may give you the strength to answer
their behavior with kindness here's a
quote by Marcus Aurelius kindness is
invincible
but only when it's sincere with no
hypocrisy or faking for what can even
the most malicious person do if you keep
showing kindness and if given the chance
you gently point out where they went
wrong right as they're trying to harm
you and quote when you're kind to these
people and show them understanding you
might be able to relieve them from their
suffering as well this way you kill two
birds with one stone they feel better
and you don't have to deal with their
previous behavior anymore so that's it
thank you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]
you